#Git spurningar og svör
#Prufa
1. Hvað gera eftirfarandi Linux skipanir?
	cd = Use it to change your directory
	cd ~ = Takes you to home directory
	ls = shows all documents in the directory your in
	pwd = Prints the name of the current working directory
	mkdir = creates a directory

2. Hvað gera eftirfarandi git skipanir og hvers vegna eru þær gagnlegar?
	git clone = copies everything from github to your git
	git log = Shows the commit logs
	git status = shows the working tree status	
	git diff =  Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc
	git checkout =  Switch branches or restore working tree files

3. Hver er munurinn á eftirfarandi git skipunum:
	a) git diff =Show changes between the working tree and the index or a tree, changes between the index and a tree, changes between two trees, changes between two blob objects, or changes between two files on disk.
	b) git diff --staged =makes it local but not public
	c) git diff commit1 commit2 = the final step making it public

4. Hvað er útgáfustýring (e.version control)? Version control systems are a category of software tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time. 

5. Hverjir eru helstu kostir við að nota GIT? If there are alot of people working on the same project you can see who did what and who made what changes and if needed you can go back if you made a mistake

6.Hversu oft telur þú að eigi að gera commit í verkefni, rökstuddu?
	at least 10 times for every question. or more if you wanna change any of the answers you gave .
7.	Hvað er "Working directory"?" "Staging area"?" og "Repository" í GIT?

	working directory : is the current directory you are working on and is being tracket

	staging area : is basicly where you get to decide what files get sent or not

	Repository : is basicly the history of the work you have done.

8.	Hvenær er sniðugt að nota greinar (branches)? 
		when you know you are going to have to have alot of folders for something and to make it easier to find what you are looking for.

9.	Hver fann upp GIT?
		 Linus Torvalds in 2005 for development of the Linux kernel

10.	Hvar er GIT helst notað?
		git can be used by anyone who has to do anything with moving or changing any type of files but it is mostly used by programers or web designers